So far, you've seen we have put all the code inside a single Web file.
While that might work for really tiny applications, it might have crossed your mind that there has
to be a better way to organize and keep to code.
And there is a better way.
It's called Control Our Classes.
These classes are kept inside their up HTP controllers folder.
Let's create our own controller first opened the terminal, we will call this new controller, home
controller for this run, be artisan, make call on controller, home controller.
Take a look at the new class generated for us.
It's empty now, but you should notice that it extends the controller class, which already existed
there in the controllers folder before.
It's a base class for all of your controllers.
Make sure to extend it as it gives your controllers some convenience methods, like, for example,
the middleware method to apply middleware to controller actions.
You should understand that controller classes are not the alternative to routes your application always
needs routine.
Controller classes can replace the closures in rooting files instead of defining their logic right after
you define roots.
Now you tell a lot of a routine to call aspecific action for a root and action.
So this is a new term for us.
And action is a controller method bound to a root.
To have the first hand understanding.
We will move the homepage and the contact page to our new controller.
Let's ask two methods in home control over their home methods and another one, the contact methods.
They will return.
The view function with the template name.
Now we need to tell Laravel Rueter how to root to this controller actions, so we need to go back to
webapp file and change those two routes so we will change back to using the get method instead of the
view method.
And since they are not simply view routes, instead of providing the template, name or anonymous function,
you provide an array where first element is the controller class name.
You can use their controller class constant to get that name, and the second argument is the action
name, meaning the method name in that class.
In our case, that's home.
Let's copy this over for the second action, the contact page, and just change the action name to be
contact and finally let to reformat that back.
Now, since this whole controller class is actually defined in certain namespace, which is defined
as such.
You can't just use this class name like that, you need to add a new statement for it, and this was
automatically done for me by visual studio code plugins.
If you don't have such plugins or you're using something else, make sure to artist use statement at
the top.
Now opened the terminal and run ppy artisan route least.
To see that our changed routes now reflect that they are controller based, so take a look at this line
that the action is now our controller class action.
Also the contact page is our controller class action.
Finally, you can also verify in the browser that this would still work.